==Project Proposal From Bryce Wilson

== Application Purpose:

The purpose of this application is to track various elements of running a Boy Scout Troop. This typically includes names
and personal information (addresses, phone numbers, emails, birthdates, date joined scouting) for scouts and active
adults. Related to each scout or adult are training taken, events attended, ranks earned, merit badges earned, service
hours, positions held, and Patrol affiliation. A variety of standard and custom reports can then be generated based on
this information. Data is used for yearly reports, supporting scout’s rank advancements, tracking attendance, Patrol
Rosters, etc.

Current application is an MS Access Relational database. Would like to have an open source equivalent that could be
easily installed on an individual’s web service provider (e.g., GoDaddy or 1and1) alongside whatever they use for a Troop
Website (Custom site, Wordpress, or another user friendly service).


== Current Alternatives:

There are several Commercial and Free alternatives. Many of the free alternatives are cumbersome and some are much
to detailed in the level of information they for tracking. Some of these are:

Troopmaster ($45/year): http://www.troopmaster.com/
Troop Track ($100/year): https://trooptrack.com/
WinScribe (free): http://aacbsa.tripod.com/scribe.htm
Troop Web Host ($100/year): http://www.troopwebhost.com/


== Project Proposal:

Develop a free and open source Troop Database application that is easy to install on an individual’s web service
provider. The application would provide a secure means for multiple users to access and enter the data. Scouts and
their families could view their data and update their personal information. The Scoutmaster and other key leaders
would be able to add events, rank advancements, attendance, merit badges earned, manage patrols, positions held, etc
through the secure web interface.

Reporting would include standard reports and custom report features. All data and reports should be able to be
exported to rtf or csv formats for use in Word Process or Spreadsheet applications. Examples of reports are:


Address List
Current Registered Members
Troop Committee/Leadership List
Patrol Roster with names, positions, phone numbers and email addresses
Individual Scout Reports that show positions held, patrol membership, ranks earned, merit badges earned,
events attended, service hours
Many others

•

I can provide much more detail and create more detailed user requirements if/when needed. I have an MS Database
that could be used as a model for basic functionality and features.

This project would be an alternative to what is available today either paid or free. It would provide a significant benefit
to Boy Scout Troops and their leaders.
